import data into powerbi.
how to build a model.
how you can share report with others.

download powerbi desktop in windows

go to main report view -> opens when you just open power bi.

in home-> getdata -> <select_data>

select the file.

this opens a navigator tab which we will use to get data to powerbi efficiently,

-> we will take the tables from the box.
-> we can transform before bringing it into powerbi
-> or we can just use load.

at the right side at the data box we will get the all the information of data 
that is being loded.

now we can try any refinements to the data.
some of the examples are below:



left side of the work space (in the middle left) there are 3 options 
and second one is data view click on that.
-> we can see all the data available in the imported tables.
-> we select which table to see on the left.


in the example we saw in tutorial by kevin stratvert power bi tutorial in 10 
we have.

united stated as it is and at some places we have us instead.
this is a problem so we will now solve it.


to do so we will have to go back to the report view.
and in the top ribbon we have.

->home->queries->trasformdata.

it will open powerquery editor.

doing something in powerquery editor will not effect our data in local machine.
it acts as middle layer between data and your work.

now in power query editor we get to see the available tables at the left hand side.


we can now see the country column with inconsistent references.

now right click on the column header and we can get a bunch of options.
what we want to do now is replace values.
click on it.

we will fill what to be replaced by what.

we can see the record of all of the steps we are making at the right hand side.

if we get to bring additional data the same steps will be applied to the new data too.


we can remove the columns we do not need by clicking on the column
and selecting the option in the ribbon saying remove column.
.....
there are so many kinds of trasformations that we can apply to our data
which we can see above at ->transform section.

.....

after doing everything to clean the data when yiu are saticified with the data
click on ->home->close & apply-> close & apply.

....
we will get back to main report view.
on the left hand side the third option from the three options available which
is data model click on it.

to establish realatin between 2 tables. we can drag a attribute from one table 
the other which will now establish the new realtion.

we can see the relations amoung the table.
report is collection of different visualizations.


power bi already detected the relation amoung tables.
...

now go back to the report view and now try to build a report.

we can see all the visuals at the right side.

in the example we will want to check the cokies shipped over time so
line chart would be a great one.

now after clicking on the line chart from the visuals available.
we can now place the cookies shipped fromm the table and drag it and place 
it at y_axis.
and date at the x_axis.

now we can see the graph on daily basis.
we can resize and reposition.

now we can also see that in the example the graph was dirty and we canot see
anything at all.

if we click on the graph we can see that there is one option to drill up.
now we can look at monthly and yearly basis.

we can check in options at visualization that we can add secondary y axis.
we can keep a legend.

also we also check revinue and it will guess the best visuals.
on rhs we willselect card now we can see the direct revinuew of 6m instaed of barchart

if w check on the customer name it will place a table like element on hte report

which is cool it will now show according to selected customer of the graphs
which will change dynamically 
...




by clicking ctrl key we can multi select customers.


we can add addition places on clicking + symbol down below.
select where to publis it will be published.

sucess!!


on the top right at the ribbon we can see publish we can click on that.

before publishing we have save the changes.


